>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Let's
switch on to operators.
Just like in javascript, just like
in pretty much every other language,
there are things that you can use,
operators that you can use to create
what are called binary statements.
And those binary statements can do a whole
lot of things, they can compare values,
they can change values,
they can add values.
And you've got all of the usual
suspects here, of course,
we've already seen that for our add
numbers method, we've already seen that.
We know how to add integer here, a plus b.
We also have a minus b if we
wanna subtract multiplication and
division, all handled by an asterisk and
a slash respectively.
We also saw modulus, which is checking,
the is basically doing,
what is the remainder of two
integers that are being divided?
What is the remaining value?
I've only really seen that used in
context of checking to see if something
is equal to is even, but
that operator does exist if you need it.
Now here's an interesting one,
there's the increment operator,
which will, in place,
increment the value of an integer or
very or a number.
So let's take, for example, this is a,
this is kind of a weird behavior,
so you have to bear with me.
So if you have the ++ on
the right side of the variable,
it will increment that variable, but it's
not gonna do it before it returns this.
So if you set b to the value of a++,
it's going to set b to 5 and
then a to 6, which is kinda goofy and
a little bit counter intuitive.
And the opposite is.
Yes, the opposite is true, which is,
if you put the ++ at the beginning of
the a it will increment it before it does
anything else, then return the value, and
then they would have the same value.
So most of the time I see, if I'm
seeing this, it's value equals zero,
I just see value++,
typically I see it standing alone.
And the reason I see it standing alone is
because I think that the other way is just
a little bit confusing, but it's very
common to just increment a number by 1.
The decrement operator is the same thing,
but
actually subtracting 1
from the value instead.
So this particular web page,
has a ton of examples of
that you can look over.
We've seen some of
the relational operators, so
we've seen double equals again,
this is a strict double equal, so
it will not work on variables of different
types, it will not attempt type coercion.
It's very strict and
safe like that, which I like, and
the not equal to is exactly, the same way.
So string name equals go
Marc now if value does not
equal name, we won't even compile.
It won't even it wouldn't even
try to compare the values, and
that's done very purposely.
There's some things that
are surprises in some languages, but
c sharp is very good about trying
to minimize those surprises so
it definitely respects
the types that are established.
Let's see greater than, less than greater
than or equal to and less than or
equal to, which, again, are usual
suspects in the programming world.
So this is another binary operator where
we say, if this value is greater than or
equal to seven, we wanna run some code
Console.WriteLine run this code.
As you can imagine, this will not
execute because this value of 0 is not
greater than or equal to seven, and
we can see that, and we just go.
Go, kill that run this boom, go.
But if we invert this value,you'll
see that the code does get run and
that the statement is printed to
the console.This returns a boolean,
so that means that you can declare
this as a boolean as well.
Is less than or equal to seven,
you can see that that declares a bool,
is less than or equal to seven.
I'm gonna anticipate the question, do I
really spell out my variables like this?
Bet you're behind, I do,
I very much, am a fan of explicit,
easy to read, reads like English code.
I don't like a lot of magic in my
software, I don't like a lot of magic in
my coding platform, and
I don't like a lot of magic in general.
I like to be as explicit
as I possibly can be.
Let's see, yes, this one,
I definitely want to cover the logical,
the conditional "and", the logical "and",
conditional logical "or"
logical "or". I call them the double "and"
or the single "and".
And I almost never use single and,
so let's take a,
let's declare this as a another bool and
we say is equal to zero, and
that's value is equal to zero.
So, as I mentioned, is less than or
equal to seven, if we do is equal to zero.
No matter what because this is an "or"
this will basically return true
if either side of this equation,
or either side of the,
this binary operation is equal to true.
The important difference between that and
the double "or" is that this will not run,
this will not be checked if this
executes and this returns true.
It's called short circuiting and it's
a very important feature to understand.
And this has implications, because
the implications being that in addition to
doing variables, you could absolutely
have a method that's public bool,
static bool IsSpencerAround.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: String,
name, return
name.Equals("Spencer").
This has implications because you might
have an operation inside of this that does
something to the database.
That does something that does some kind
of operation, some kind of mutation,
some kind of change to another system.
There may be a very Important,
there may be a situation where you
don't wanna execute this code.
There may be a situation where you
don't wanna execute this code, but
you wanna do an "and" comparison instead.
So in this case, if this is true or
if this is false, excuse me, this will
not execute because it says, well,
both of those things have to be true.
And if this is false, I know this
statement is not false, whereas a single
ampersand a single "and" will execute
both sides of this code no matter what.
Again, I think this is really important
to kind of understand, and because of
what can happen in the real world in
terms of when you call this method,
it may do some kind of mutation.
It may make a database call that you just
don't want it or need it to make in this
context, last operator that I will
mention is the assignment operator.
We have seen that a bunch of times
as we've declared variables,
anything where we assign
this is assign any.
Anytime we see a single equals
we should think assignment, and
that's exactly what we get here,
this is also an assignment operator.
If we change this value to three,
there are instances
where you may want to do
some additional assignment,
maybe you want to do a plus equals or
a minus equals.
And I don't think I've ever written
a multiply or divide equals or
a modulus equals, but those operations
will essentially perform will translate.
So if you do a plus equals b, it basically
translates to assign
the value of a to a plus b,
and we can see that here
is that if we value +=7,
that if we Console.WriteLine(value).
We can see that it will write 10 to this,
because what it's doing is
taking seven and adding it to 3, so
useful for addition, subtraction.
Sometimes multiplication and division,
but not statements that I write a ton of.